Once you decide that a blockchain seems like the right solution,
you'll need to think through which type of blockchain you might want to use.
There are three main types of blockchains.
A public blockchain, a private blockchain and a Hybrid Blockchain.
In this video, we'll define each of
these blockchain types and cover when
each might be the best solution for your application.
First, a public blockchain is what we've been assuming through this program so far.
On a public blockchain,
everything is open for the entire network.
Anyone can join and get access to add and verify transactions.
Bitcoin is an example of a public blockchain.
A private blockchain is basically the opposite of a public blockchain.
You get the functionality of a blockchain,
but still have the ability to restrict who can join the network.
Rather than anyone being able to join and verify on the network,
you can explicitly assign those permissions to specific users.
This is similar to the difference between an internet and an intranet.
The Internet is freely available and accessible to anyone,
but companies may use an intranet to share secure internal documents.
This allows them to keep permission restricted to the users within their company.
That's exactly what you can do with a private blockchain.
You can restrict users to the people in your company or to any group you have in mind.
Private blockchains have an interesting reputation.
Some people say they're useless and defeat the whole purpose of the blockchain.
If you want full control over information you don't plan on sharing,
then why not use a traditional database.
On the other hand, some major corporations seem to be
pushing the idea of privately hosted blockchain services.
One useful possibility of a private blockchain is
to restrict access to features that are still being tested.
You wouldn't always want full open access to
features that you're still working on and testing before deployment.
A Hybrid Blockchain is a mix of both a public and private blockchain.
In a hybrid Blockchain,
transactions stay private while allowing a network
of users to create and validate transactions.
Owners of the blockchain,
can determine which transactions should only be visible
to certain smaller groups and which can remain public.
The goal here is to get the best of both worlds.
For example, you might be a company that wants to share product information with
other companies and allow a subset of that information to be available publicly.
As a food distributor maybe you track the price and ownership
of your products supply chain as they move from the farmer to the consumer.
You can track this on any blockchain,
but on a Hybrid Blockchain you could set certain restrictions.
You can share all the information with the companies that are involved but if you
want consumers could be restricted from
seeing the price at each stage in the supply chain.
This would allow them to see that the food is really coming from where you say it
is but wouldn't show them some of them were
classified information that you'd prefer to hide.
While it's easier to think about use cases for a Hybrid Blockchain,
it's similar to a private blockchain and that some people really don't like the idea.
It's easy to see that this is a form of re-centralizing the information
to be restricted on an as needed basis by the company in control of it.
What you do get from this though,
is a middle ground where information can be shared on
the blockchain even if some of the information needs to be kept through yourself.
So to recap, we just went over three types of blockchains.
Public, private and hybrid.
Each of these networks operates using
the same encrypted data using wallets and keys like we've spoken about previously.
Where they differ is in how much you have the ability to restrict access to this data.
public blockchains allow open access to all the data
in the network and allow anyone to become a node in that network.
Private blockchains do the complete opposite and restrict
this data to only specific users and finally,
Hybrid Blockchains are a mixture of these two types that allow you to
restrict some information while allowing other information to remain public